saster bans welcome back to uh another
episode of the cro confidential podcast
I'm your host Sam blonde delighted to be
here with an incredible guest uh and a
topic that I am really excited to talk
about I I'm I've been thinking about
this episode for weeks and it's finally
here first uh welcome Leandra Fishman to
the Pod Leandra is just an incredible
sales and revenue executive with over 30
years of experience leading large sales
and revenue teams if we just focused on
the last decade there are uh a few
stints that you've had Leandra that are
um just exceptional you were the SVP of
sales and success at
syrid uh Leandra LED that company
through an IPO and then through a
subsequent acquisition by twio so spent
some time at twilio as well most
recently Leandro is cro at intercom
several years and is currently the cro
at Apollo so several names that folks
listening to this pod are probably users
of the products and with that Leandra
just delighted to have you thank you for
joining us today thanks so much for
having me Sam looking forward to
chatting today oh awesome let's Jump
Right In as I do with most guests and to
that end Apollo is in what I would
describe as a hyper competitive space
the is the sales stack and is now in a
way the market leader in this hyper
competitive environment I want to talk
about the goto Market strategy that is
allowing Apollo to beat the competition
and probably have other sales leaders
like myself share similar sentiment
around like Legacy systems that made a
lot of sense in 2018 versus today moving
forward with Apollo and how you got
there so let's start there at a high
level what do you attribute Apollo
becoming a market leader in such a
competitive space to yeah that's a great
question so consider what HubSpot did
with inbound marketing in a very crowded
space HubSpot differentiated themselves
by offering a better solution that
crafted an inhouse not Cobble together
product and so what HubSpot did really
successfully for the marketer Apollo is
doing for sales and what's interesting
about sales is we know that sales reps
have a LoveHate relationship with using
tools across multiple Dimensions that
really matter to salespeople are things
like ease of setup and ease of use and
then moving on if you were to list the
things you're doing at Apollo that
differentiate you from what your
competitors doing specifically in sales
and marketing what are the things at the
top of that list yeah a couple things
come to mind once's different about
Apollo is that our sales model is built
around a plg motion and so what we as a
tech purchases and sales in the past
forced users to go through a sales Le
process you don't get the tools in the
hands of your sellers until you've gone
to an exhausted POC and implementation
and frankly you're paying for the
product and the sales process around it
and so Apollo stepped in with a plg
offering we were the first to get there
with millions of users at scale and I
think what the key is for us is that our
end user needs to see values fast they
want know how quickly they can book a
meeting how BS can they generate Pine
that's their sole mission in life right
so being accessible to end users
especially in SNB has been a Northstar
for us and I really think it's paying
off across our platform because we're
seeing competitors now pop up and more
established companies trying to play
hatch up and the one awesome thing about
our model is that our product gets
better with scale so we have a community
with millions of free users that are
unlocking that Network effect
literally making our data the freshest
in the industry because they're doing
hundreds of millions of actions and
activities on our platform and in a way
the way we scale our goto Market has
created that virtuous cycle that helps
us keep offering the best product which
keeps bringing in new people to buy and
I think when I really look back at aoll
differentiation that I think that
something unique about us is that when
you have a really loved product it's
fostering that Community around it and
that's the essence of the PO of what
sales people are right they want to talk
to people they want to interact makes
sense okay so couple takeaways and then
I'll talk a little bit about one thing
that comes to mind from my experience at
brex but couple takeaways um you're
selling in an environment where most
competitors require businesses to talk
to a salesperson before they get access
to the product um and one thing that
differentiates you on the and marketing
side is you actually want people to
experience your product either alongside
or before experiencing other products
and that's potentially a takeaway if you
believe that you have the best product
in the market you should be in
encouraging and incentivizing people to
try it either alongside competitors or
in a differentiated way where they
actually can't even try their
competitors this does take me back to
the days at echosign we were in a hyper
competitive environment with echoine and
DocuSign echosign is what is now Adobe
sign we were acquired by Adobe and we
both pitched and then actually
encouraged and lived up to this concept
that
anytime a business trial Echo sign
alongside docu sign we would win 100% of
the time and we had who tech companies
or whatever that we rattled off the did
this side bys side trial I think there
were two things that happened there one
was the psychological impact of just
suggesting to trial pushing for the
trial there's so much confidence in our
product that we want it to do the
selling for us and so many times people
actually wouldn't even do the trial they
would just pick us because about the
product itself and then we also were
very thoughtful about when companies
would trial us alongside our competitors
you would be very thoughtful about here
are the things you should be paying
attention to you mentioned Simplicity
you would often times talk about the
Simplicity of sending and signing
agreements and how important that was
especially to the signers who weren't
the sort of paid users of the system and
so there's probably some analogy for you
where it's you have one system to set up
versus four or
five competitors that you're looking at
API Integrations Consulting support I I
think just driving home two points that
you made that were specific to Apollo
but I think are more universally
applicable one is just around using the
product encouraging using the product
but the psychological impact and then
the actual impact the simp um Simplicity
making it easy to use your product those
are a couple that that really stand out
the last thing that I'm going to mention
and then we'll move on one thing that
brex did that really differentiated us
from our competition we actually weren't
the first uh corporate card that allowed
for cash-based underwriting where we
took a percentage of a company's cash
balance and then had no personal
guarantee that's really the the sort of
value prop that made bre strong but we
were the first to Brand ourselves as the
first corporate card for startups and I
think the important part of that
sentence is who we were for we were
extremely deliberate that we were going
after this segment of the market that
was technology startups and when we
would Market to people when people would
walk by our Billboards it it just they
knew they belonged and so when you go up
against competition it was we're a
corporate card for everyone we were the
first corporate card for startups that
gave us a real advantage in this sort of
like innovators dilemma approach which
is you pick a narrow segment of the
market and you just go after it
relentlessly and gain market share one
other thing that sort of stands out on
this specific to Brand how to
differentiate yourself from competitors
is something that worked really well for
brex with that let's move on continue
along this path of selling and beating
the competition um do you target
companies you know are on a specific
product or products where you have high
win rates um how do you approach this do
you call out the competitors in your
initial Outreach um and this is like
mapping back to the very top of the
funnel how we think about competition
yeah I I think we have similarities with
your story on brex because we also are
really known as kind of startups and
Founders and so we don't Target specific
companies from a sales and marketing
perspective as a core piece of our goto
Market strategy as depending on where
you're going and if you're going more up
Market sometimes you're selling to a set
of verticals or Industries or you've got
a solution that's toow our Niche we are
very Broad and so we are seeing win
rates that are strong across lot of
verticals lots of Industries and
actually lots of company sizes because
again we have a lot of end users that
are coming to use Apollo to maybe
augment their tool out of their own
pocket or that their teenss are are
driving that end to endend and I've
never typically been the type of seller
or leader to aggressively call out the
competition I think that when you search
for a problem to solve and the value
that you have to offer that's how you
really win of course we have a point of
view on how we compare and we advise our
perspective customers on that but we're
really trying to just be trusted
advisers with more of a consultative
cell mindset and and as mentioned our
foundation has been very focused on SNB
all along so we've been heads down
building a worldclass product for the
audience and the demand is creeping up
Market organically because it turns out
a lot of businesses want sales tooling
to be more accessible and so many go to
market Solutions as are focused on
building and selling to the top Echelon
of midmarket or Enterprise companies
but globally there's an estimated I
think it's about 330 million small
businesses driving the global economy so
it's a massively underst market and we
estimate that Tam to be about $30
billion and again I think because
there's no barrier to trying the product
we don't have to sell somebody in
advance on the commitment of taking a
meeting see what it's about and then
trying to make comparisons when you're
trying to compare products competitively
and you have a free offering why
wouldn't you try it
that makes sense and it resonates it at
the sort of top of the funnel over time
you're probably measuring things like
conversion rates by Geo byal subvertical
segment meaning company size and that's
really driving a lot of your behavior in
terms of who you're targeting over time
you may start to see some Trends around
gosh we're really switching a lot of
people off of this Legacy product for
lack of a better description and then if
that Trend does exist and you can take
advantage of it uh perhaps you do but
specifically targeting users on a
product may or may not make sense and it
sounds like Leandro in your case U not
really the focus it's more sort of uh
firmographic information than it is
which existing set of systems they are
on and then let's move down the funnel
here top of the funnel we're getting as
many qualified opportunities in our
pipeline as possible regardless of which
system or systems they're on in in a
deal now where you're competing with
another vendor or vendors how do you
balance highlighting what how why or how
your product is better with being
perceived as selling too
aggressively yeah I think aggressive and
confidence are some things you have to
be really careful about because I think
that when you're clear on the value that
you provide you can be confident about
that but you have to make sure that you
understand what is the problem that the
customer is having and arue the best
solution to solve that problem and I
think when you can really nail the
differentiated value on what you have to
offer versus maybe what another company
is using that's where the magic can
happen because it's easy to do a feature
functionality comparison across
competing products but really to
understand the value and the problem
that you can solve differently and the
impact that it's going to have to that
company I think really matters and you
know what's interesting I think being a
c I am in the seat of actually being the
Persona to buy the product that I'm
selling which I think is a really cool
perspective and particularly sales
leaders we want to get to values fast
and also I think sales leaders can sense
a song and dance when they hear one
because we're used to being on the other
side of the fence but in a plg model
especially is if you're not getting what
you came for you can take your money
elsewhere we're not locking our
customers into these massive long
contracts or commitments where it's just
hey we're hyperfocused on making sure
they're getting to value fast so getting
them to have a meeting within Apollo as
soon as possible and then another and
another and that's like how that ball
starts rolling and then being really
consultative about add additional
products maybe in their use cases for
example if we have a really terrific
sales engagement solution you might have
reasons that you need to play nicely
with another existing solution so we
teach Team how to navigate as advisers
within the tech stack and then we trying
to be very transparent about again on
our pricing and our functionality so you
don't F they take a meeting with us to
find out what things cost it's just on
our website and so we think that it's
better to be honest be consultative get
to know our product be confident someone
should be able to use it back and
backwards and forward in a way that they
think really adds the into their
business but we're not aggressively
going against the competitors in a way
that I think our product just doesn't
speak for itself makes sense one thing
that we or that I learned over time the
first is you do want to know and so we
you referenced SB several times which it
was a core segment that Apollo sells
into we also have some really large
customers and for some of the larger
customers especially those that might be
migrating off of existing systems they
actually do want to talk to a
salesperson because you need Consulting
around how this they actually want to be
sold to and in those environments and I
go back to my days at Echo sign one of
the things that was really effective at
a tactical level was just at the
beginning of the call to to be as you
talked about being perceived as a a
consultant that is helping them through
this process I would ask the question I
understand that you're either evaluating
uh Us in docy sign or you're already on
docy sign I'm going to show I'd love to
learn more about your environment tailor
our product demo to what you all are are
using today or doing today um that's
said there are some big differences
between us and the other vendor that
you're looking at um if you I can
highlight those differences so that you
can compare and contrast the products
alternatively I can just stick to uh our
offering and just flag sort of the the
things that are exceptional about our
product and I would say 99 times out of
a 100 when I would position it as what
would you like as a buyer would you like
to highlight some things that
differentiate Us in the space or would
you like me to not do they they would
say please highlight the differences
between the products yeah and it goes
back to the the framing of the question
which was something like if you're
competing how do you balance
highlighting why your product is better
versus being perceived as selling too
aggressively if you ask how you want the
the conversation to go in the bu
asks you to highlight some differences
you're able to do so in a way where
you're you're just doing what they have
asked you to do and then the second
thing that comes to mind in this
specific category is when we would
highlight some of these
differences uh we would do so in a way
that actually takes what the competitor
thought were their
advantages and puts them on the back
foot that this is actually a
disadvantage um I'll give one t iCal
example that I think helps highlight the
point when we were selling at brex we
were competing with a company called
divy in the early days divy was our our
primary competitor and divy had this
really sophisticated budgeting product
that was was a feature that we were
actually working on hadn't yet released
and if it was like a feature B off they
would have checked this box we wouldn't
have had it and the way that we
positioned this was look you actually
don't want this feature one thing that
we position ourselves and pride
ourselves in is being simple anytime we
actually maybe didn't even mention the
competitor but what we would say
something like there are vendors in the
space that introduce complexity for
complexity sake yes and they have things
like budgeting and here's why you don't
want that cards are going to get
declined can give a bunch of examples as
to why this is actually a bad thing and
then they would go get on the call and
the competitor would like already be on
the back foot but again I I hope these
things are coming off in ways that like
you know when you say that it doesn't
sound like you're bashing the
competition it's much more to your point
like trying to be this trusted advisor
and hopefully getting to a point where
one you're trying the product that we
are offering our product is objectively
better but we're going to guide you into
why our product is objectively better I
think that's brilliant and I think they
nailed something that's really important
is to understand like when a feature is
benefit icial and when it can actually
then drag down and the the the use case
that's really important I always think
is it a table stake functionality that
you actually need or is it just feature
gloat and people are trying to do the
the sparkly lights and and excitement
around something that's really not that
important for some them to you know
execute on what their ideal use case is
awesome okay let's continue down the
funnel we've talked about top of the
funnel selling middle of the funnel
against competition now let's get to
uh Closing one thing that the first
thing that comes to mind when I think
about closing a deal when the deal is
competitive is pricing and often times
if you're in a hyper competitive
environment can it can be a race to the
bottom on pricing or certainly like the
buyer can position it as such so how do
you think about maybe that at a high
level and then more specifically how do
you all deal with pric do you discount
to you match competitors if you're
replacing a competitor do you buy them
out of their contract I'm just curious
how you all have been so successful
specifically as it pertains to pricing
yeah it's interesting because we are
really affordable at Apollo and what
most companies are seeing with growth as
it slows they're really looking and
trying to understand how they cut the
costs and how they take their Tech stack
and save money and so they're with
Apollo being able to replace like five
to maybe different tools with one
solution that's more effective and less
expensive and so it's like cost is one
thing but when you look at your overall
Tech spend and your Tech stack that's
another and so we inherently can offer
lower prices because of our product L
growth motion and while many companies
need to hire an SDR an AE and a CSM grow
their business are word of mouth as our
main driver um for Apollo and so in plg
we're really able to provide better
services at cost and really when you
have transparency as your Mantra as we
talked about and your go to market model
is really hyper efficient you don't have
to take the same stance as everyone else
on pricing in competitive deals what we
find actually is Legacy competitors are
slashing their prices to match Apollo
and customers are telling us that our
product is superior so we don't have to
get in this kind of as you mentioned
race to the bottom or head-to-head
competitive pricing situation because I
think it's really what's most important
is going back to that Val value that you
provide and I would say it's less less
about us and more about companies
thinking about like how they price go to
market and I would encourage people to
get comfortable about me being more
transparent in pricing because I think
today's customer has a very different
expectation than they had a few years
ago in resulting of plg tech motions and
self- serve and direct to Consumer
pricing remember sales back a few
decades ago you couldn't even find
anybody's prices on their website and so
now because we're all con consumers and
we're having that Amazon experience and
you can compare pricing and you can see
pricing I think actually when people
don't show their pricing there can be a
little bit of a mistrust and not really
clear on what drives the pricing lovers
and so we really trying to skip back to
Value having them Reach value fast not
racing to the bottom as you mentioned on
price and really bringing it back to the
essence of what we think that customers
are going to be able to experience on
the platform super interesting a couple
things that come to mind mind and this
episode isn't about pricing it's about
competition and I won't spend too much
time on pricing specifically that said
what what I heard from you Leandra which
really resonates is that in in a PL
product Le growth motion you can
undercut pricing if the competitors are
using expensive sales and marketing
resources to acquire customers you also
have the benefit of allinone and so
there's a number of things that I think
are advantageous for your specific
business as it pertains to pricing the
the sort of counter to that comes to
mind I into like period end of statement
in the product Le growth or maybe even
segment based SMB customer acquisition
environment the thing that historically
I have had a preference around when
selling more into the Enterprise is
where we're like we talked about this
environment where somebody actually
needs a sales rep they they want to talk
to somebody it's a much larger business
they want to have have custom workflows
built out or whatever their their needs
are more complex I've actually benefited
from being positioned as the higher
priced vendor and the logic or what I
attribute that to is the psychology
behind proactively positioning as the
premium provider in this space yeah and
like with that you actually get more we
are the premium provider and I would be
explicit about that but I think these
things are almost conflicting with one
another depending on the motion that you
use to acquire customers in the segment
that you are going after but a couple
things that come to mind as you were
talking through but I think the takeaway
at least in a product L growth
environment is you you can undercut
competition if your customer acquisition
resources are less complex as they are
your business and I think I think it
also depends on your product so are you
a if are you leading in a disruptive
Market where there's nothing currently
established or are you a me too in an
existing stock where you're having to
then rip and replace and prove against
and so I I love the premium aspect but I
think you really have to make sure the
differentiation and the value hopefully
is there to back that up so somebody
else that's just not trying to be a me
too is saying I can do the same thing at
a lower cost makes a lot of sense okay
let's move on to one of the last topics
we got through the funnel let's now talk
about hiring and I'm curious your
perspective and it'll provide mine but
have you seen success in hiring
salespeople from
competitors I don't and the interesting
thing is because I think it more has to
doal with the
motion than the product and to me it's
it's always nice that they're coming
from that same type of industry and you
know that persona but I'm really looking
for somebody that understands more of
the motion of the company the size of
the company the stage of the company
because I think it's really a whole
different Beast to go work at a startup
company or a hyper Growth Company than
it is to work at maybe a little bit
larger company that's in a different
stage of of kind of their evolution I
really look for traits of people not
necessarily who they've sold to and
sometimes you could also bring over bad
habits uh you can get some good
information out of it obviously but you
can also bring over some bad habits so I
think sometimes just force a different
type of conversation of way that you're
selling so need the traits are important
like curiosity and we know persistence
and and improv and track record but
there's a sales DNA that I think is
really important because I don't think
all sellers are equal and so I think
it's more important to understand the
the DNA of a seller what's important for
them to know how they like to sell and
where their strengths are and are you
like a hunter traditionally or a farmer
and again like who do you like to sell
to in terms of your either company Sage
style or or your persona and trying to
lean into somebody's strength fitting
everybody into the same M so to me it's
not necessarily a competitive Advantage
as it is is just trying to find the
right core for song yeah philosophically
aligned there with one one thing that I
heard Jason say the other Jason from
zaster say the other day that really
resonated with me um uh I think between
us we've been doing this for many years
the folks that I and we made one hire
from DocuSign at echosign and then
there's like zenitz Gusto and then was
brex and ramp and being on the the
receiving end of making a hire from one
of those competitors it hasn't worked
out and being on the end where one of
the competitors hired directly from us
like the the direct competitors doy sign
hired from echoine if ramp hired from
brex they got the wrong person like the
type of person that goes to a a direct
competitor where it was personal there
it says maybe something about that
person that that makes that jump Jason's
so that was like up until recently that
sort of would have been my perspective
on this Jason said something in a
podcast recently that I listened to that
really did resonate and and so maybe
this is like a asterisk or a caveat
something like that where if there's a
vendor that is like pretty far down the
list in terms of where they stack rank
in the space if they're like the fourth
or fifth best vendor in a competitive
environment and they've figured out a
way to be successful with an inferior
product an inferior brand and I don't
know what the exact example would be to
to highlight in Rex's case but some
somebody that was able to figure it out
with one hand tied that behind their
back something like that then I could
totally see that person coming in and
just being like free like they were able
to make it work in an environment that
was much harder and maybe the takeaway
from that is I would potentially try
hiring a top rep at a competitor but a
competitor that was like far inferior to
the product that we are selling for the
reasons that I just mentioned I always
had just an emotional attachment as a
seller the person I was selling against
and I could never go to the other
teams I don't know maybe it's the
competitiveness and me that uh could
never allow that that type of move it's
totally true maybe there are like
extenuating circumstances they they laid
off the whole sales
team the business went under but I I
agree with you but uh for the first time
ever I heard Jason say something and I
was like that actually is an interesting
maybe counter let's end with one final
question around I know you consult and
advise lots of other startups do you see
any patterns around common mistakes or
pitfalls that you've observed companies
make when selling in a competitive
market it goes back to some of the
things that we've talked about which is
really like feature selling versus value
selling and understanding the
differentiation especially if you're
trying to sell up against something
that's already there you have to be
really clear on that value benefit that
you provide on kind of the so what why
that you're going to get someone to go
through that process of changing I think
it's different if you're disrupting and
you're there's something out there that
no one has before and you're really
solving a problem but then like how do
you make sure that you're really
articulating the the the benefit and
kind of the ROI or solving that problem
and I think we can get a little bit into
people not clearly understanding their
Persona their ICP making the product
really hard to use or hard to buy again
I just think in the age now that we are
in technology in Social selling and
social business and us all being
consumers at heart and how fast that
whole technology has evolved I think we
just have to think about how do we make
it for customers easy to use buy try
understand make it simple less is a
little bit more I'm sure it depends on
the product that you're selling and and
who you're selling to but I really think
it all comes down to is how do you
differentiate your productivity better
than anything else out there in the
market I never want to sell a me too I'm
always asking myself is this a me too
product because again when you're
selling me too A lot of times you really
just are selling on
price piggybacking off of those thoughts
one of the first things that comes to
mind is something around this is a
strong word taking control of the
conversation and really starting with
here is how we are different and why
that matters I I think that you if you
were behind on that if you are talking
with somebody who already believes from
a competitor why they are different and
why that matters you're on like your
back foot and you're
you're being defensive and so I think
you really want to be in that sort of
lead position where you are controlling
the conversation and you don't even have
to bring up a competitor's name I think
you just really want to focus on what
differentiates you and why that matters
and have that sort of be core to the
evaluation process that your buyer is
going through yeah and the second thing
that comes to mind and I've mentioned it
a couple times on this podcast but
something that depending on the segment
you're selling into can really
differentiate you from a competitor is
around a
relationship and I've used this
statistic a few times but we had
something like 3x the conversion rates
when we met a customer on site so
nothing to do with competition it's just
did we meet this person this buyer in
person if we did they were much more
likely to close a similar I think
Dynamic would exist where if you were
selling against a competitor and you met
them in person and your competitor did
not you will have an advantage and I I
can't
underemphasize the importance of like
meeting customers spending time with
potential customers hopefully doing this
in person building relationships
especially as we start to move up Market
in some of the larger uh deals it's such
an important call out s even in this day
and cycle where we're not necessarily
always in person anymore because we're
we're doing these things now we are
today but relationships matter and as
they say people buy from people that
they like so that's a lot of times the
thing that pushes it over in the end
perfect Leandra positive note to endon
thank you so much for being here for
folks that are listening hope you
enjoyed today's episode on competition
and we'll see you back soon thank you
thanks Sam